We will learn about 	the Essential elements of animals and plants.
Properties of Metal ion in bioinorganic chemistry 	ligand binding, catalysis, signalling, regulation, sensing, defence, structural support
Macronutrients	essential in relatively large amounts to the growth and development of living organisms e.g. Mg K Ca Fe For Nice C H O P S
Macronutrients	essential in amount to the growth and development of living organisms e.g. V Cr Mn (not Fe) Co Ni Cu Zn Mo W Se F I
Eukeryon 	eu=true, karyon=nucleus
The eukaryotic cell contains	cytoplasm, nucleus, chloroplast, mitochondrion, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, peroxisome, pump, channel etc
A eukaryote	an organism consisting of a cell or cells in which the genetic material is DNA in the form of chromosomes contained with a distinct nucleus 
Eukaryote involves	all living organism except eubacteria, archaea
Major cation in blood plasma	Na (K in C, potassium is major in the cytoplasm, oppositely, Na is major in blood plasma)
Amount Inside the animal cell/cytoplasm of K:Na 	0.15M : 0.01M
Biological function of Na and K 	charge carriers and osmotic pressure balancer
Na-K or ion pump  	balances cell structure by controlling osmotic pressure by Na and K ion sizeable potential difference
Blood pressure gets increased if 	Na gets increased in blood plasma or extracellular fluid or K gets decreased in cellular fluid
A safe amount of Na 	Na should be 10 times lower than that of extracellular fluids
To control blood pressure 	Na and K ratio should be maintained at a constant
Role or function of Fe	Oxygen carrier(haemoglobin), Oxygen storage (myoglobin), electron carrier, 
Role or function of Mg	photosynthesis(chlorophyll), stabilizer for RNA and DNA
Photosynthesis reaction 	6CO2+6H20=C6H12O6+6O2
The function of chlorophyll 	absorb photon and pass excitation energy.
Light is absorbed by chlorophyll as 	there are conjugated polyene in the porphyrin structure.
Role or function of Mg	It helps to make molecules rigid so that energy can't easily be lost thermally by molecular vibrations, function of chlorophyll
Function of Zn	1. Carbonic anhydrase enzyme(enzyme of Zn) causes hydration of CO2 and dehydration of bicarbonate (HCO3-). 2. Carboxypeptidase catalyzes the hydrolysis of peptide bonds at the carboxyl end of a peptide chain 
Carbonic anhydrase enzyme(enzyme of Zn) causes	hydration of CO2 and dehydration of bicarbonate (HCO3-). 
Carboxypeptidase (an enzyme of Zn) catalyzes	 the hydrolysis of peptide bonds at the carboxyl end of a peptide chain  That means where there is a carboxyl(-COOH) group, the nearest peptide bond will be broken.
Peptide bond structure	-CONH-
Simple Mechanism of Na and K pump	Na goes out of the cytoplasm as we know that Na is the greater amount in extracellular fluid and K comes into the cytoplasm as we know that K is the greater amount in the cytoplasm.
The overall mechanism of ion pump	1. Cytoplasmic Na+ binds to the pump, 2. This binding stimulates phosphorylation by ATP, 3. Phosphorylation causes the protein to change the pump's conformation and expel Na+ to the outside, 4. Extracellular K+ binds to the protein and triggers to release of the phosphate group, 5. Loss of the phosphate restores the pump's or protein's original conformation, 6. K+ is released and Na+ sites become receptive again, the cycle repeats.
Active transport 	transport occurs from low concentration to high concentration, requires energy, molecules are pumped across the membrane, ATP required
Na functions	nerve functioning in animals
