What we will learn? 	Metal ions in medicine, their importance and functions.
Vitamin B12 is a 	cobalt complex
Vitamin B12 contains	Co(iii) atom, corrin ring, organic portion(phosphate group + sugar + organic base), R group (sixth position)
Without the R group, vitamin B12 is 	cobalamine
R group may be substituted by CN-, OH-, CH3 and names will be correspondingly cyano, hydroxo, methyl cobalamine
Active Coenzyme B12 	1. adenosylcobalamin or AdoCbl, 2. 5-deoxyadenosylcobalamine
B12r means	reduced form of B12
B12s means	super reduced form of B12
How to synthesize B12r	hydroxocobalamine converted to B12r(Co2+ amines) in the presence of H2, Pt(weak reducing agent) 
How to synthesize B12s	hydroxocobalamine converted to B12s(Co1+ amines) in the presence of NaBH4(strong reducing agent)
Reaction of coenzyme B12 types	1. One carbon transfer, 2. Isomerization
B12 one carbon transfer 	(Remember by HMGS) 1. Homocysteine to Methionine in the presence of coenzyme B12 and enzyme(Mnemonic: a journey from "Home" to "Methionine"), 2. Glycine to Serine in presence of coenzyme B12 and enzyme(Mnemonic: a magical transformation of "Gly" into "Ser")
Isomerization in the presence of B12	involves moving substituents along a carbon chain
Example of Isomerization in the presence of B12 	(Remember by GMPP) 1. Glutamic acid to Methyl aspartic acid and 2. Propylene glycol to Propionaldehyde, Nrnobi vai's pdf 44 page
Reaction of B12s	1. B12s with HCCH, 2. B12s with RBr, 3. B12s with BrCN
Enzymes 	1. proteins, synthesized by amino acids by cells. 2. catalysts that greatly enhance the rates of specific reactions.
Enzymes are named according to 	process and substrate.
Cofactor	non-protein part of an enzyme whose presence is essential for the activity of an enzyme.
Metalloenzyme	metal and enzyme coordinated compound function for specific reactions.
Mg(ii) cofactor presents in the metalloenzyme 	photophosphorylation-related: phosphohydrolases, phosphotransferases
Fe(ii) and Fe(iii)	cytochrome(a, b, c, p450), ferredoxin, peroxidases, catalase
Cu(i) and Cu(ii)	oxidase related: amine oxidases, cytochrome oxidase, ascorbate oxidase, galactose oxidase, tyrosine
Mn(ii)	arginase
Zn(ii)	carbonic anhydrase, carboxypeptidase
Fe and Mo	Nitrogenase
Carboxypeptidase A consists of	protein chain of 307 amino acid residues+one Zn(ii) ion in which Zn is tetrahedrally surrounded having a molecular weight of 34600 and is egg-shaped.
Function of carboxypeptidase A	hydrolysis of peptide bond